[docs] clarify array methods that won't trigger reactivity (#7073)
sveltejs/svelte: site/content/tutorial/02-reactivity/04-updating-arrays-and-objects/text.md

title: Updating arrays and objects
---

> Svelte's reactivity is triggered by assignments. Methods that mutate arrays/objects internally will not trigger updates by themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Svelte's reactivity is triggered by assignments. Methods that mutate arrays or objects will not trigger updates by themselves.
```

> In this example, clicking the "Add a number" button calls the `addNumber` function, which appends a number to the array but doesn't trigger the recalculation of `sum` and does not update the rendered page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, clicking the "Add a number" button calls the `addNumber` function, which appends a number to the array but doesn't trigger the recalculation of `sum`.
```

}
```

> You can also get a similar result using the ES6 spread syntax:

Reviewer: for some reason "similar" bugs me here as it's not a "similar" result but rather is the "same" result
```suggestion
You could also write this more concisely using the ES6 spread syntax:
```

Reviewer 2: Well, there's the "creating new array" vs "using the same array" thing but I guess that's just me being pedantic. Sure.

```js
function addNumber() {
	numbers = [...numbers, numbers.length + 1];
}
```

> The same rule applies to array methods such as `pop`, `shift`, `splice` and to objects methods such as `Map.set`.

Reviewer: should include "and" before the last item in a list. maybe we should have multiple examples of object methods as well?
```suggestion
The same rule applies to array methods such as `pop`, `shift`, and `splice` and to objects methods such as `Map.set`, `Set.add`, etc.
```

Reviewer 2: @stephanietuerk Can you make the changes? (Github is annoying when it comes to making PRs to other forks)

}
```

> However, indirect assignments to references such as this...

Reviewer: This sort of seems under-specified to me because it works if done directly in a script:

https://svelte.dev/repl/cd63c5870fbb43a19b860f2d4bc2b126?version=3.47.0

I believe it has to be within a function not to work:

https://svelte.dev/repl/d03cee2e12f74823a3ab916161020038?version=3.47.0

Reviewer 2: The first repl seems to work because the assignment happens before the initial render. An example with the effect observable would need a lot more code and explanation, whereas I think the current one gets the point across succinctly.

Reviewer: Would it really require a lot more code? All the examples above this are inside an `function addNumber() { ... }`. Wouldn't it make sense to also put these last two examples inside something like `function doSomething() { ... }` for consistency?

Reviewer 2: The `addNumber` snippets refer to existing code on the right.

Having an example with the effects visible for the latter snippets would be [this much code](https://svelte.dev/repl/a4a92b55eb0c417da40af7012decfe1f?version=3.47.0) give or take, at which point it warrants its own repl/chapter.

Anything in between a full example and the current state doesn't add much imo.

Reviewer 2: And we're saying "won't trigger reactivity" not that `obj` won't change itself which still holds.
